
Road Standardization in Indonesia

In the U.S., we have a complex parser because there are many language ambiguities and roads are
named in a fairly standardized way. For example, streets in the U.S. are prefixed or suffixed
with a cardinal direction or quadrant like "NW Harrison St", "Harrison St NW" or "Harrison St W".
The parser can remove the direction information, yielding "Harrison St" and then remove the road
type information (Street) to produce a base name of "Harrison". This process of parsing the road
name as a grammar gives us the direction, road type and base name for the road as separate pieces
that can each be standardized on their own and then recombined to produce a standardized road name.
This parse-standardize-and-recombine process prevents parts of the base name from being abbreviated
or otherwise standardized when the base name contains directional or road type information, such as
in "West Greenlake Way Northwest" (which is the NW quadrant of the base name "West Greenlake Way") 
or "Old West Road Northeast" (where the base name is "Old West" not "Old W", resulting in the name
"Old West Rd NE" not "Old W Rd NE"). For another example, "Easy Street Way", would be standardized
to "Easy Street Wy" and not "East St Wy".

In Indonesian, we don't know enough about the grammar of street names to know how to handle cases
like these, or even if they exist at all. For example, it appears that Indonesian street names 
are pretty regular and that "Gang" and "Jalan" cover most cases (but not all). It's very frequent 
that "Gang" and "Jalan" are first in a street name, but there are also many cases in Jakarta that 
we don't quite understand how to parse, like:

    Blok I Gang II
    Griya Asri Raya
    Green Lake City Asia 6
    Gebang Raya
    Garuda
    Gatot Subroto Flyover
    Global Mansion
    Ghana
    Grand Duta Cluster Diamond
    H Abdulah
    
and there are some cases that look like the sort of ambiguities we have in the U.S., where what
looks like a base name contains directional information, but they might be something else:

    Bekasi Timur Raya
    Gang Bekasi Timur II Dalam
    Jalan Bekasi Timur Gang I   <--- timur not last, also gang and jalan both used
    Jalan Kemayoran Barat Gang 1
    Jalan Tebet Barat Dalam IV J
    Jalan Cideng Barat Asrama
 
There are also some roads that use semi-western naming that isn't consistent:

    Jalan BSD Boulevard Utara
    Greenhill Boulevard
    Jalan Avenue I
    Jalan Podomoro Avenue
    
Given all this complexity, we're wondering if it is a good idea to try to produce a grammatical
parse of Indonesian street names in the same way we do in the U.S.  It may depend on cultural
expectations around abbreviations and particularly whether any likely mistakes could be insensitive
or offensive to native speakers. If Indonesians wouldn't mind if every abbreviation was used in
all contexts, then it's quite easy to do that. If abbreviating "Barat" in a base name might cause
a problem of some sort, then we need to produce a full grammatical parser, which is not hard to 
do with a full understanding of the grammar... but getting a full understanding of the actual 
grammar being used might be quite difficult and time consuming to do. 

Given all this, our plan is to quickly produce a simple standardizer that does not do a grammatical
parse, but rather simply abbreviates all occurrences of tokens in the input while we determine 
if there is a need for a full grammatical parse in the standardization process (and how that would 
work).

      Jonathan
      



  